# Options

## cleanPatterns

* Type: array of strings
* Default Value: `$OUTDIR/$JOB!($OUTEXT|.synctex.gz|.tex)`, `/$OUTDIR/_minted-$JOB/*`
* Commands: clean

A list of file glob patterns to use when executing a clean command. Each glob
pattern uses following syntax:

- Typical glob patterns, like `**/*`, `foo/bar/*.pdf`.
- Brace Expansion, like `foo/bar-{1..5}.tex` or `one/{two,three}/four.Rnw`.
- Logical OR, like `foo/bar/(abc|xyz).js`
- Regular Expression character classes, like `foo/bar/baz-[1-5].tex`
- POSIX bracket expressions, like `**/[[:alpha:][:digit:]]/*`
- Quantifiers, like `?(quux|bar)` or `+(quux|bar)`. `?` matches zero or one
  patterns, `*` matches zero or more patterns, `+` matches one or more patterns,
  `@` matches exactly one pattern, and `!` match anything but given patterns.
- Value of environment variable using shell variable form (`$VAR` or `${VAR}`)
  or the following job variables.
  <dl>
    <dt>`$BASE`</dt>
    <dd>File name of current source file.</dd>

    <dt>`$DIR`</dt>
    <dd>Directory of current source file.</dd>

    <dt>`$EXT`</dt>
    <dd>Extension of current source file.</dd>

    <dt>`$JOB`</dt>
    <dd>Current job name or base name of source file if no job name is
    used.</dd>

    <dt>`$NAME`</dt>
    <dd>File name of current source file with extension.</dd>

    <dt>`$OUTDIR`</dt>
    <dd>Current output directory or `.` if no output directory has been
    specified.</dd>

    <dt>`$OUTEXT`</dt>
    <dd>File extension associated with output format.</dd>

    <dt>`$ROOTDIR`</dt>
    <dd>Directory of current main source file.</dd>
  </dl>

Patterns that begin with a slash or a backslash (`/` or `\`) are interpreted as
a file system glob pattern with the directory of the main source file as the
root directory. For instance, if the main source file path is `/foo/bar.tex` and
the pattern is `/gronk/*` then resulting pattern `/foo/gronk/*` will be used to
search for files or directories to remove during clean.

Patterns that do not begin with a slash or a backslash are interpreted as a
generated file glob pattern and will only match files explicity created by a
rule during a command such as `build`. For instance, `**/*.aux` will cause any
auxilary files created by the `LaTeX` rule to be removed during clean.

## copyTargetsToRoot

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`false`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

If `copyTargetsToRoot` is true and `outputDirectory` is not `.` for the current
job then the rule `CopyTargetsToRoot` copy each generated output file to the
directory that contains the source file.

## deepClean

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`false`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`clean`</dd>
</dl>

If `deepClean` is `true` then all generated files will be removed regardless of
the value of [`cleanPatterns`](#cleanPatterns). This is equivalent to appending
`**/*` to [`cleanPatterns`](#cleanPatterns). Additionally, if the `clean`
command results in the outputs of all rules being deleted then the cache file
will be removed.

## engine

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`pdflatex`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

The LaTeX engine to use when applying the `LaTeX` rule, e.g. latex, pdflatex or uplatex.

## filePath

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>none</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

Override the master source file path for a specific job.

## ignoreRules

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`pdflatex`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>all</dd>
</dl>

Ignore specific rules when processing.

## ignoreCache

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`false`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

Ignore file cache generated by previous builds.

## jobName

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>none</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>all</dd>
</dl>

Job name used for latex.

## jobNames

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>array of strings</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>none</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>all</dd>
</dl>

Job names used for latex.

## phaseCycles

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>20</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>all</dd>
</dl>

Maximum number of evaluation cycles in each phase.

## outputDirectory

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>none</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

Name of directory for output files.

## outputFormat

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Allowed Values</dt>
  <dd>`dvi`, `pdf`, `ps` or `svg`</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`pdf`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

Output format of main generated file.

## severity

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Allowed Values</dt>
  <dd>`trace`, `info`, `warning` or `error`</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`warning`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>all</dd>
</dl>

The severity of messages to display.

## shellEscape

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>

  <dt>Allowed Values</dt>
  <dd>`disable`, `restricted`, `enable`</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>none</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

Enable shell escape (write18).

## synctex

<dl>
  <dt>Type</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>

  <dt>Default Value</dt>
  <dd>`false`</dd>

  <dt>Commands</dt>
  <dd>`build`</dd>
</dl>

Generate SyncTeX annotations.
