# Rules

## ApplyOptions

Apply options from YAML file and any LaTeX magic comments found in source file.

## AssignJobNames

Assign job names to initial source file.

## Asymptote

Run Asymptote on any generated .asy files.

## BibTeX

Runs BibTeX to process bibliography files (bib) when need is detected.

## Biber

Runs Biber to process bibliography files (bib) when need is detected.

## Clean

Clean up a previous build.

## CopyTargetsToRoot

Copy targets to root directory.

## CreateOutputTree

Create directory tree for aux files when [outputDirectory][] is set.

## DviToPdf

Converts DVI to PDF using (x)dvipdfm(x).

## DviToPs

Converts DVI to PS using dvips.

## DviToSvg

Converts DVI to SVG using dvisvgm.

## FindLogFiles

Find preexisting log files.

## GraphDependencies

Creates a GraphViz dependency graph.

## GraphViz

Runs GraphViz on dependency graphs.

## Knitr

Runs knitr on Rnw files.

## LaTeX

Runs the required latex variant.

## LhsToTeX

Runs lhs2TeX on lhs files.

## LoadCache

Loads the file/rule cache from a previous build.

## MakeGlossaries

Runs makeglossaries on any glossary files generated.

## MakeIndex

Runs makeindex on any index files.

## MetaPost

Runs MetaPost on produced MetaPost files.

## ParseAsymptoteLog

Parses the console output of Asymptote.

## ParseBibTeXLog

Parses any bibtex produced logs.

## ParseBiberLog

Parses any biber produced logs.

## ParseLaTeXAuxilary

Parses the aux files produced by all variants of latex.

## ParseFileListing

Parse the file listing (fls) file generated by latex. Used to update the
dependencies for rule LaTeX.

## ParseLaTeXLog

Parses the logs produced by all latex variants.

## ParseLaTeXMagic

Parses Magic comments in LaTeX or knitr documents.

## ParseMakeIndexLog

Parses any logs generated by makeindex.

## ParseOptionsFile

Parses the YAML option file.

## PatchSyncTeX

Patches SyncTeX files if LaTeX document was generated by knitr so PDF reverse
sync will work.

## PdfToPs

Converts PDF to PS using pdf2ps. Enabled by the `pdfProducer` option.

## PsToPdf

Converts PS to PDF using ps2pdf.

## ReportLogMessages

Reports log messages from any parsed log files.

## Sage

Supports SageTeX by running Sage when needed.

## SaveCache

Saves file and rule status to a cache (-cache.yaml) to assist with rebuilding.

## VerifyFileExistance

Verifies that all files still exist.

[outputdirectory]: options#outputdirectory
